We surveyed flower visitors over the course of an entire alpine flowering season, from beginning of flowering to petal falling, during July 2015. Species interactions were surveyed by directly observing and sampling flower visitors to flowers (plant species) in each plot. Blocks were randomly sampled between 10 am and 5.30 pm for 20 min (5 min break between rounds).We followed a matched pairs design and sampled three plots within each block at the same time in order to exclude variation within blocks due to changing weather conditions and flower visitor activity. Then, blocks were sampled following a stratified random design. Each day we sampled 14 blocks, completing sampling of all 28 blocks over two consecutive days each time. We ensured that each block was sampled at each time of the day, in a random order, for 6–9 times (blocks were dismissed once petals started falling). In total, we performed 204 sampling rounds over 15 sampling days (from 6 July 2015 – 27 July 2015), covering the whole flowering phase of examined alpine plants (Appendix S1: Tab. S1).Data were subsequently pooled for each plant species at the plot level (n= 84). Flower visitors were identified at the species level whenever possible, otherwise to genus or family (Appendix S1: Tab. S1). Afterwards, we classified flower visitors on the basis of life history by expert knowledge into the following trophic guilds (i.e., functional groups): pollinators, herbivores, scavengers, predators and parasitoids (Appendix S1: Tab. S2). These functional groups reflect the feeding behavior of the adult stage, the one that is observed interacting directly with flowers, rather than the entire life cycle. For instance, butterflies were considered as pollinators (adult stage) rather than as herbivores (larval stage). Since we exclusively observed visits to flowers, individuals and species classified as pollinators may not all do pollination successfully and non-pollinators may do some pollination. We used linear mixed models (LMMs) to test the response of phylogenetic diversity to removal treatments (categorical variable with three levels), ecosystem engineer species (categorical variable with two levels), and their statistical interaction (fixed effects); plant species richness (i.e., number of subordinate plant species) and flower density (i.e., number of flowers per plot) were included as fixed effects and fitted first; blocks were random effects.Furthermore, we tested whether visitor functional diversity differed among removal treatments and ecosystem engineer species. We calculated the diversity of visitor functional groups using the Shannon index of guild abundance. Visitor diversity was standardized by flower abundance per plot. We used the same LMM structure to test the response of functional diversity to removal treatment as we did for the previous analysis of phylogenetic diversity.